---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E5 - Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-12-10
labels:
  - MIS
  - Assignments
---

# Introduction: 
Further details link: https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2_retrospective.html

This assignment tasked us with developing a basic webapp store with the functionality of purchasing a valid quantity of items from a storefront, login or register as a valid user, then successfully send the newly logged-in user to an invoice with the items they had selected to purchase.  This was an expanded look at the Assignment 1 storefront creation through the addition of said login and registration.  These functions all needed to be validated and run through our server, rather than done through the client/web browser.

My own assisgnment had a basic shop.html page in which users could type in a valid number which would be taken by the server in a POST method. Then the server would generate new pages based on the user's actions, such as clicking on the 'purchase' button on the shop page would generate a login page HTML template, and based on actions on that page would cause the server to further generate an invoice or a registration page (also using an HTML template).
 
# My Assignment Development:
I did not work with a partner for this assignment.

As this was mostly an expansion on Assignment 1, and many of the necessary components I needed to add to my website were covered during the workshop we had after the extension, I did not need as much assistance as I thought I would/as much as I needed for Assignment 1.  When I did need help I sent an email to either Dr. Port or Dr. Kazman, or went to their offices in-person for assistance. I mainly needed help getting my login and registration pages to be redirected correctly, and keeping my quantities data persistent across all of my various functions being generated by the server.

This was a lot different from assignment #1, mainly due to the greater use of the server and the greater need for personal research on topics like validation for our registration and login pages. As I had set up my shop webapp to be run mainly through server generation, it was difficult at first for me to completely generate these pages correctly, mainly due to my confusion around GET and POST methods; I assumed since I had used POST for my quantity collection, any and all functions featuring the app had to be run as an app.post. Unfortunately this would not permit my templates to load because, thanks to a debug console.log Dr. Port provided, I was able to see that redirects were actually GET requests, so I had to use app.get's to render my HTML templates, and then have an app.post of the same action to process the form data.  It was also different due to the greater amount of research I did on my own, especially in regard to validation. It felt much more natural and easier to fit together my research and my own code this time around than it did in Assignment 1, though this mostly left me with only client side, rather than server-side validation for my registration. This was somewhat fine however, as going through the process helped me get a greater understanding on different HTML attributes and other topics like regex. 

This was also all topics that went well and not so well.

Additionally, I probably spent about 70% of my time thinking on how to do something, researching, and getting help, and about 15% of the time both writing the code needed for my app to run and 15% of the time testing and debugging it.

# Conclusion
If I could go back in time to do things differently, I believe I would try to take the approach many other people did using querystrings and multiple, physical HTML pages rather than rendered through by the server.  I want to try this approach especially because I still don't quite understand how querystrings work and how the code would be used/formatted and want to get a deeper understanding of it in relation to this assignment and compared to my more server-based microservice model.  It also seemed a bit more natural in terms of logic to me, especially since I'm more used to dealing with HTML pages and HTML than javascript and the server.
